                                        The Guardian



The wheat stalks rustled and rubbed against each other, swaying with the wind like a group of
mesmerized dancers. Even the lightest of breezes made the waves of stalks moving up and down
creating a metallic shivering sound. A flock of crows landed on the field, but were immediately
flying away with fear in their eyes. He had scared them. He was the one who has protected the
field for generations, but there was something wrong. He was dying. His once smooth and
perfected paint, stripped away by the brutal huling clouds leaving him naked, to perish and be
forgotten. Every time they would attack with glass shards hurtling from the sky, tearing into his
body, stripping away parts of his body. He was once a crowd favourite, loved and admired by all.
He used to be the star with masses of people cheering for him on the track. It had been his
purpose. He had always won. The deep roll of thunder shook him violently from his thoughts. He
recalled the time he lost his wheels, his way to move, his once adoring fans crippled for a
younger faster car. He had screamed and screamed, wanting them to stop, no one listened. He
had been hopeful waiting for salvation. But no one came. He was forgotten. Over the years he
watched the field grow. Young saplings into strong, tall and healthy stalks, bursting with wheat.
He has watched over them, never allowed anything bad to happen to them. They whispered to
him in their shivering raspy voice. He had not understood them then...but now he did. The
traitors had come back and taken his most prized possession, his heart. They wanted to steal it
from him, end his life. He welcomed death with open arms, but something made him stop. The
whispering, the entire field, which stretched out like an endless blanket spoke to him again… and
this time he understood. “Protect us” they chanted.
He escaped from the cold tendrils of death, they tried to choke him smother his will. But he was
stronger, he fought them. With new vigor he looked at his new fans, his family. They needed him
and he would be there for them. He looked at them, the clouds, charging towards him with their
glass shards and lightning spears poised. He would stand his ground. As he looked at the setting
sun, declaring war on him. He looked at the sun dappled sky and savoured for potentially the last
time. He fixed his eyes on the charging beasts. On the demons sent by nature herself. He would
for as long as he had a body. He was going to protect. He has a purpose. He is the guardian.

Aayush 11x
