THBT the the development of high functioning Artificial Intelligence
presents too many risks.



Ladies and Gentleman today I am going to be telling you about the imminent physical dangers
AI poses for us. But before I get into my arguments, I would like to rebut the opposition’s
arguments.




Now onto my first point Being human



The very essence of being human is feeling emotion. What if the AI subconsciously chooses to
do something resulting in millions of property damage, ending up in the death of hundreds?
Who do you blame then? The machine, surely not, This atrocity doesn’t feel guilt, how can it self
reflect and atone for its mistake. We would have a being so devoid of emotion, with power so
immense that we can’t match it. It could carry out operations with the utmost ruthlessness and
leave destruction in its wake. We need to realize This isn’t a sci-fi fantasy. This is happening
right now. The US military has already begun testing out prototypes for drones controlled by AI
and algorithms with plans to deploy these drones by 2024.

Now onto my next point, our security,

In 2013 Edward Snowden leaked the numerous files on the public, collected by the NSA. We
are always being monitored and all our data is filtered through. There is no more privacy. All of
this is controlled by an organization, now let’s put AI into the mix we have an unstoppable force
that doesn’t think like us, can’t feel what we feel. How can we possibly trust it with our
information. Over the years we have left cyber footprints to be followed all our info stored
digitally We have practically paved the path for AI to track us, We hope to create a force we
can’t possibly control. This monster of science in the hands of one country or even one person,
could be the end of life as we know it, and not in a good way. Once it’s inside the cloud system,
stopping it will be impossible as it can be everywhere at once, and by the time we come up with
a solution it will sadly be too late.

We have seen in our past that whenever bleeding edge technology has the potential to be used
as a weapon it has. Mustard gas, agent orange and the most infamous nuclear weapons.
Countries have always used these weapons of mass destruction. What are we gonna do when
rogue countries wage war. How can we stop it? The simple answer is we can't.
