                                        TOK Essay




 “There is a sharp line between describing something and offering an explanation of it.” To

                         what extent do you agree with this claim?


                             International Baccalaureate 2020



                                    Word Count: 1524



The statement “There is a sharp line between describing something and offering an

explanation of it.” contains many factors within itself. To correctly formulate a response,

one needs to explore and define the many factors: What is meant by a sharp line?.

What is the fundamental difference between a description and an explanation? What do

the two words mean individually? The answers to these questions depend wholly on the

color of the glasses one is wearing. Before answering the question, I will dissect it into

parts and analyze and explain everything separately. Using two areas of knowledge

(Natural Sciences, History and Visual Arts) I will apply my theory and analysis to the

title.



What is a description? One might tackle this question differently, and for others, it might

be very simple. The literal definition would be the act, process, or technique of

describing or picturing it into words. For example, describing a person would include
physical features as well any kind of accessories of notable value. Personally, a

description to me is what something is like rather than what it is literally. I would use

examples and analogies to put the idea of it forth instead of a literal definition. Let us

use a murder case as an example, to explain and describe a murder one would have to

do very different things. A description of the murder delves into how the actions

happened, how it was done etc, but an explanation of the murder is concerned with the

reason behind the murder and the psychology surrounding it. A description could be

understood as denotative, something that defines what is being seen.



Just like description the definition and role of an explanation are also heavily debated.

An explanation could be a statement or account that makes something clear.

Additionally, an explanation delves deeper into the subject with explanations for the

how, why and when aspects of that particular subject. An explanation analyzes cause

and effect, offering a teleological assessment of a function within an enclosed system. A

fine line would indicate that the above two concepts are entirely separation



The natural science is a topic ripe with descriptions and explanations. It relies on

descriptions of a phenomenon to explain the wider picture. A base theory can have

multiple descriptions to render the base for understanding but will require a scientific

explanation for a complete understanding. For example, the term “global warming” is a

metaphor that is widely used to describe the entire aspect of climate change, which

causes many misunderstandings of the concept (since it is climate change, not climate
warming). For this example, we need to look at the language and concepts itself. The

use of rhetorical devices such as metaphors when describing a phenomenon can cause

gaps in understanding and give a completely different idea of the situation. Additionally,

the metaphor doesn’t explicitly state what climate change is, or even implies the relation

between global warming and climate change. The counter to this point would be that,

even though descriptive words can cause misunderstandings, it usually is very helpful in

understanding a difficult concept in a simple and fast way. In the natural sciences, an

explanation is based on the literal situation, in the case of global warming, an

explanation of climate change would include the statistics (the rise in global

temperatures and sea levels) and studies. An explanation is a form to understand the

topic as a whole, unlike a description which can often fail at high levels. For one to know

everything in the field description can only act as a small part of the explanation.

Therefore, like this, there are many cases where there is no line between description

and explanation, as the two are very much intertwined.



History is something where a description is unvalued when an explanation is not

accompanying it. For example, listing all the monarchy of England would be a great

chronological description but would be utterly useless for historical purposes as the

impact of explanation of their existence is not present. For history, in this case, to be of

any use, we need to know the role of the monarchy on other factors. Similarly, historians

focus on certain events over others to describe a time period. Most of the time it is

because of the importance and influence that certain event has had. There were many
battles and encounters in World War 1, but only pivotal or specific battles are taught to

the general public, as they are the ones that explain the essence of the war. The choice

of these events has an explanation behind it, even if it is never explained explicitly.

Therefore the description then changes the outlook of the receiving party and perhaps

with a different description and explanation maybe the understanding could have been

significantly different. This just goes to show how non-existent the line between

explanation and description is but how major the results can be.



Now I will shift my focus to another aspect of this question - The Visual Arts. In

comparison to the natural sciences, this AOK is completely different. Art is very much

subjective, and even more so when the artist has been deceased for a long time. One of

the most popular pieces of art (if not the most popular) is the Mona Lisa. Many people

and even artists have pondered on the intentions of the portrait and what it truly

represents. To describe the painting would be a very easy task as it would be a purely

visual description (color, shape, etc). Even searching online one can find millions of

descriptions of one painting and most of them are very common. However, the intention

and motive behind the piece were never explained, not even from the artist himself. One

can imagine an explanation but we will never know for sure, just because of the

subjectiveness of art. To know the true meaning one must have an explanation from the

artist. In contrast, many might say that while it is maybe difficult to know for sure the

art’s incentive, we can still interpret the meaning using other ways of knowing. I agree

with the former argument as even if we can artificially simulate an explanation from the
artist’s perspective it could still be false, defeating the entire point of an explanation. Art

is a very fickle and mysterious thing, something that people can never truly understand

better than the mastermind who created it.



Impressionism is one of the many revered art styles. It depicts an image of a certain

object (a fleeting moment) as if someone caught a brief glimpse of it. The entire point of

impressionism and its offshoots is to describe a slice of life. It essentially acts like a

photograph but instead of capturing the subject in its original form it is translated and

described into another medium (usually a painting). This style has no hidden meaning, it

is merely a sunlit landscape, with many of the works done by Claude Monet (arguably

the most influential impressionist) being paintings of landscapes and grand open spans

of land.

Expressionism, on the other hand, is drenched with emotions and exaggeration. You

have artists using distortions and primitivism to convey an emotional message. A prime

example would be “The Scream” painted by Edvard Munch in 1893, one of the most

well-known pieces of art in the world, was hated by critics when it originally premiered

due to the sudden shock to impressionism. The painting depicts a disfigured being

screaming, clasping its face with a distorted background and dark colors. The meaning

behind this painting is autobiographical, as it deals with anxiety and horror felt by

Edvard Munch who referred to it as his “soul painting”. We can discern the fact that this

piece is psychological and is not a description but an explanation of his inner

feelings/demons. It is not something gone in the blink of an eye and has more weight to
it. A neutral party can interpret it and have slightly different results than a different party

i.e an explanation can be inferred from a visual inspection and there are a message and

reason behind it. Yet again we are at a crossroads as in the above two styles we can

see that there is a defined line between description and explanation or impressionism

and expressionism.



Based on the examples above, I conclude that the fine line between describing and

offering an explanation varies directly from case to case. Different subjects of life will

yield a different balance: somewhere the line is defined and others where the line is

blurred or does not even exist. In my experience, a description acts as a part of the

explanation, but many might disagree with me and consider the description as a type of

explanation and denouncing any difference between the two altogether. It is important to

note that even with subjects commonly thought to be completely subjective, we have

concrete ideas with no deeper meaning or explanation, and the opposite is true as well.

Using TOK one can challenge any views, as only rarely something is truly set in fact

and untouchable.
                                          Appendix

K Shabi “ Meaning of The Scream (1893) Painting by Edvard Munch: Art Analysis “ 12th June

2013. Date Accessed: 12th December 2019

https://legomenon.com/meaning-of-the-scream-1893-painting-by-edvard-munch.html



Lagemaat, Richard Van de. Theory of Knowledge for the IB Diploma. Second Ed., Cambridge

University Press, 2015 Date Accessed: 15th November 2019



The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica, " Mona Lisa” Nov 26th, 2008

Date Accessed: 15th November

https://www.britannica.com/topic/Mona-Lisa-painting
