                                              Work Of Fiction


My role models don’t exist. Yeah you read that right, the people I look up to aren’t actually real. It’s quite
possibly the weirdest thing about me. The people I have built my personality and interests around, save
the world or explore cursed tombs on a normal weekend. My role models are comic book characters, and
it’s not as odd as it seems. Let me explain.

The first comic book I ever read was Tintin. Imagine my amazement when I discovered, you could
combine both good storytelling and pictures that show you characters. This concept was so alien to me
that at first I rejected it, regarding it as childish and only for immature kids - unlike me the peak of maturity
as a toddler.

On a fateful night, I opened the first comic book. I still remember that moment like it was yesterday, my
clammy hands delicately holding onto the pages. Slowly pronouncing the words “Adventures of Tintin”.
Just reading the first couple pages got me invested in this pointy haired man and his dog, a funny
bearded person and their danger defying adventure. I couldn’t stop reading, time had become irrelevant
for at that moment nothing else mattered to me. The colors and pictures popped almost like I was
watching a movie, and the story … was just beautiful. I thought I had just discovered a secret. Running as
fast as my small legs would let me I demanded my parents one simple thing “We have to buy more
Tintin!!!”. My parents, happy I was excited about reading, promptly bought me the entire collection.

Tintin was my first role-model. I wanted to go on the wild adventures, beat evil gangsters and make
interesting friends across the world. It awakened the adventurer in me, and my imagination ran rampant. I
might not have had the same adventures I was expecting back then but Tintin surely made me feel like an
adventurer uncovering imaginary artifacts and fighting the epitome of evil. That collection is now sealed
away like a hidden treasure, much like the ones I read about, and one day I will go treasure-hunting for it
again.

Like all childhood crushes, I quickly moved on. Tintin just didn’t have the same spark anymore and I felt
bored and trapped. But it all changed when I met Spider-Man. Now obviously, I didn’t meet him but the
way I acted after watching the first movie I might as well have. Seeing a man jump and swing from
buildings, in what to me was real life was life altering. I had finally found a new love, something newer and
brighter and most of all something that rebooted my imagination like an old engine during the harshest
winter.

Soon, I was engrossed in everything superhero related: stories, movies and games, nothing was out of
my reach. To say I was addicted would be the understatement of the century. I didn’t know back then, but
secretly the same superheroes I read about and dreamed of one day becoming would make me the
person I am today. I saw so many different powers, and an exorbitant amount of sci-fi technology : flying
suits, unlimited energy reactors and robots. I had always had an affinity towards science, but after this
revelation, I felt like I had found my calling. I dreamed for days trying to come up with my own inventions
and again imagining situations where I would use them. Now older its a fond memory, but back then it
was my hobby. I realized after some time, that I would have to put my genius on hold because I just
wasn’t a grown up yet. Growing up, I learnt more about the world and the technology within it, the not so
unlimited power source would be nuclear reactor and the sentient robots is AI. The sci-fi I grew up reading
and watching was becoming reality, and I couldn’t be happier. I realized that while I can’t save the entire
planet now I could save people in need a different way. I could volunteer and donate, tutor children
aaaaor even create a game to bring joy to people. I could debate about the problems in the world
because even if I couldn’t save the entire world, there was a possibility I could save one person.

“With great power, comes great responsibility”. Those were the words Spider-Man lived by. I might not
have the power but it is still my responsibility to do the right thing. I used to dream as a kid waiting for my
chance to save the day, and now the imagination has become reality. So I will keep on dreaming,
because I will use all my power to make that dream a reality.
